1. Define Algorithm. Explain fundamentals of algorithmic problem solving. Explain different steps in designing and analyzing an algorithm.
2. Define Asymptotic Notations: Big Oh, Big Omega and Big Theta (with Mathematical Definitions)
3. Explain General Plan for analyzing efficiency of Recursive Algorithm
4. Find factorial of a number using Recursive Algorithm Analysis. Derive its efficiency.
5. Write Tower of Hanoi Algorithm using recursive algorithm analysis. Derive its efficiency.
6. Explain General Plan for analyzing non-recursive algorithm
7. Suggest non-recursive algorithm for finding maximum element in a list of n-elements. Derive its efficiency.
8. Prove that if t1(n) E O(g1(n)) and t2(n) E O(g2(n)) then t1(n) + t2(n) E O(max[g1(n), g2(n)]).
9. Write an algorithm for sequential search of an element using an array. Calculate best, avg and worst case efficiency.
10. Explain divide and conquer method. Also, mention its advantages and disadvantages.
11. Design an algorithm for merge sort and derive its time complexity.
12. Explain Strassen's Multiplication and derive its time complexity.
13. Design an algorithm for quick sort. Apply quick sort on these elements [25, 75, 40, 10, 20, 05, 15].
14. Define Topological Sorting. List the two approaches.
15. Define AVL Tree. Explain its four rotation types with an example of insertion.
16. Define a Heap. Explain its properties with its representation.
17. Design Horspool's algorithm for string matching. Apply it.
18. Construct a bottom up heap for the given list and obtain its time complexity.
19. Construct Minimum Spanning Tree (MST) using Kruskal's algorithm.
20. What are Huffman Trees? Construct the Huffman Tree and Encode DAD-CBE.
21. Apply Dijkstra's algorithm (Using the same Graph A-B:4, A-C:1, B-C:2, B-D:5, C-D:8, C-E:10, D-E:2). Start from A.
22. Define Transitive closure. Apply Warshall's algorithm.
23. Explain the Greedy Technique for Prim's Algorithm & Obtain MST
24 .Explain Greedy Criterion & Apply Greedy Method for Knapsack
25. Illustrate N-Queens problem using backtracking to solve 4-Queens problem.
26. How Branch and Bound technique is different from Backtracking?
27. What is backtracking? Apply backtracking to solve the Sum of Subset problem.
28. Explain greedy algorithm to solve greedy (Fractional) knapsack problem.